2/21
BIODESIGN
 2024 
Spotlights on New materials, Fabrication Techniques 
and Unexpected Collaborations to watch
Early Signals of What's Next
tocco presents
BIODESIGN
 2024 
Spotlights on New materials, Fabrication Techniques 
and Unexpected Collaborations to watch
Early Signals of What's Next
 reports
tocco
1/22
Biodesign Report 2024
 The world’s biggest design fair, rolled out the green carpet under the theme 
"Materia Natura" daring designers to wrestle with the elements of matter and 
nature*.
 That was the initial pitch, yet the event ended up parading more materialism than 
“Materia” or “Natura”. It is, indeed, never an easy task to stick with the theme 
(exhibit A: the recent Met Gala 2024's** "The Garden of Time" and sustainability).
Despite this, some brands did manage to keep their compass pointed towards the 
theme "Materia Natura", and in the grander scheme, true North of non-
greenwashing, natural and low-impact materials. 
In this Biodesign 2024 Report, we diveinto those who married materia with natura, 
spotlighting the rebels reshaping our material world.

Milan Design Week 2024
“Materia Natura  (Matter Nature) The theme of Fuorisalone 2024” by  Fuori Salone.it*
“The Met Gala Was A Missed Opportunity For Sustainability”, Elle **
The artwork by EX. (Andrea Cassi and Michele Versaci) and Giorgio 
Ferrero (creative director of MYBOSSWAS) for Fuorisalone 2024. 
2/21
 Photo courtesy of Mycelium Lab
Biodesign Report 2024
1/14
3/22
Biodesign Report 2024
Monomaterial plastics are the industry’s nod towards simplification—made 
from a single type of polymer, they’re easier to recycle than their hybrid 
cousins. While they promise a potential greener goodbye at life’s end, don’t 
be fooled: production can still be a dirty affair, depending on the type of 
polymer used.



Monomaterial Plastic - is it 
better is it worse?
Vivibarefoot x Balena monomaterial 
footwear venture: they've engineered 
a 3D-printed shoe entirely from 
compostable monomaterials. 

Unlike traditional footwear, which 
combines multiple materials and 
adhesives, these organic-looking 
shoes are tailor-made from scans of 
your feet, ensuring a perfect fit that's 
not only stylish but also fully 
biodegradable.
(Photo courtesy of Vivibarefoot)
1/14
3/21
Biodesign Report 2024
Photo by Yosafat Herdian
Monomaterial Plastic - is it 
better is it worse?
Moon Landing" project by Moon Rabbit Adaptive Lab (Photo: Moon Rabbit Adaptive Lab)
This year, Milan saw the work of Moon Rabbit 
Adaptive Lab. Their “Moon Landing” project 
took Vivibarefoot’s model to new heights, 
showcasing the prowess of Fused 
Deposition Modeling (FDM) 3D printing in 
footwear. 

By refining their MoonRunner model and 
integrating Zellerfeld Shoe Company Inc. 
design guidelines, the team delivered a 
product that's not only custom-fit but also 
technologically advanced with distinct 
textures and optimised printing processes.
4/22
1/14
3/21
Photo by Yosafat Herdian
Wood - back into the spotlight
Wood is making a strong comeback, not in a nostalgic 
way, but potentially a great player in the realm of "Materia 
Natura". Designers we saw in Milan are gravitating 
towards types like low-impact, native wood; or 
reclaimed wood, which tells a story of past lives; and 
bamboo - even though, technically speaking, bamboo is 
a woody perennial grass in the grass family Poaceae.
 As natural as wood can sound, designers need to be 
aware that sourcing and certification can shadow linger, 
questioning the true footprint of our forested friends.



Tamart Design's "PTamart Design - 2 stools made from solid oak placed together to create a table 
(Photo: Tamart Design)
Biodesign Report 2024
At Milan Design Week 2024, Tamart Design's 
"Powered by Love" exhibition subtly embraced 
natural materials in their wooden furniture, eschewing 
the loud sustainability banners for a more 
understated, but genuine approach. The showcase 
blended historical designs with modern flair, and was 
indeed a treat to the eyes and the touch.
5/22
1/14
3/21
Wood - back into the spotlight
Biodesign Report 2024
4/14
RAIKU strides into the packaging game with a 
wooden armour that promises the earth. Their 
wrap turns a cubic meter of wood into 20 cubic 
meters of shock-absorbing fluff.* 

Though it might be an easy win against 
traditional plastic bubble wrap, the wood 
sourcing saga continues - how we can keep the 
sourcing truly sustainable, and what the end-of-
life story with this material looks like.
“From Wood to Wrap: RAIKU Redefines Protection”, 
Tocco.earth*
6/22
Raiku packaging (Photo courtesy of RAIKU)
Raiku packaging (Photo courtesy of RAIKU)
Hemp is having a moment, becoming more 
and more present in the design industry. Exhibit 
A would be Mosca Partners’s grand hemp-
cement brick installations at Milan Design 
Week 2024. This ancient material requires 
minimal water and pesticides, and sequesters 
CO2 efficiently. 

However, as hemp scales up in mainstream 
markets, the full life cycle impact, especially in 
diverse climates and soils, still awaits a deeper 
dig.
Hemp - growing in popularity
Hemp-based leather. LOVR™ 
(Photo courtesy of LOVR)
Biodesign Report 2024
Beyond fabrics and isolations, one interesting 
application of hemp is hemp-based leather. 
LOVR™, the invention of Revoltech and their 
plush, plastic-free marvel, promises to break 
down in your home compost within 90 days 
(trial phase).
7/22
1/14
3/21
Photo by Yosafat Herdian
Hemp - growing in popularity
The True Green x Husarska Design Studio: pieces of furniture made from hempwood 
(Photo: The True Green x Husarska Design Studio)
Hemp-based leather. LOVR™ 
(Photo courtesy of LOVR)
Biodesign Report 2024
At Milan Design Week 2024, Husarska Design 
Studio and The True Green are turning heads with 
their Rehemptation product line. 

With pieces like the minimalist HempStool and the 
playful HempSwing, they're proving that hemp 
wood can also be an interesting biomaterial to 
look out for.
The True Green x Husarska Design Studio: pieces of furniture made from hempwood 
(Photo: The True Green x Husarska Design Studio)
8/22
It is not difficult to discern the popularity of mycelium-
based materials. If we talk numers, mycelium market 
boasts a projected Compound Annual Growth Rate 
(CAGR) of 27.48% to 2032. Indeed, mycelium offers a 
cleaner blueprint by repurposing agricultural waste. 
But don't get too giddy — while it's renewable and 
biodegradable, the real challenge lies in scalability 
and durability in everyday use.




"Mycelium Market set to 
grow by 27.5% CAGR 
through 2032."
One notable application of mycelium is MuSkin, the 
suede-soft invention of Pangaia Grado Zero. Crafted 
entirely from a parasitic fungus, each piece is 
handcrafted with all its rustic charm.
Mycelium - the coolest kid in the block
 MuSkin, the suede-soft invention of Pangaia Grado Zero 
( Photo courtesy of MuSkin)
Biodesign Report 2024
9/22
Mycelium - the coolest kid in the block
HedelComposite by Kineco Bio (Photo: Kineco Bio)
Biodesign Report 2024
At Milan Design Week 2024, we 
saw the work of Kineco Bio, who 
is sprouting new design 
possibilities with 
HedelComposite, their mycelium 
DIY kit that grows into anything 
from eco-friendly packaging to 
home decor in just a week. 

But while it's a fun fungi party, the 
question remains on the finish of 
products which can vary, so it 
might not be a go-to for 
everything just yet.
Another application is in 
shock-absorbing packaging. 
By collaborating with farmers 
to reuse crop residues that 
would otherwise burn, 
contributing to air pollution in 
India, Mushloop creates 
alternative to synthetic, 
single-use cosmetic 
packaging.
10/22
 (Photos courtesy of Mushloop)
11/22
Biodesign Report 2024
New tech and fabrication techniques
New tech and fabrication techniques are expected to transform 
the way we create, and pushing the boundaries of cleaner, less-
waste design. From advanced 3D printing materials to novel uses 
of waste, let's dissect the cutting-edge methods and get to the 
complex reality beneath the hypes.
The artwork by EX. (Andrea Cassi and Michele Versaci) and Giorgio 
Ferrero (creative director of MYBOSSWAS) for Fuorisalone 2024. 
The birth of 3D printing made quite a bang, 
unlocking unprecedented creative freedom, 
and enabling designers to craft complex 
geometries with ease. 

Ever since, when the first wave of hypes 
subsided, the focus now is on finding materials 
that align with the goals of circular and even 
regenerative design. Readers can agree with 
us that - after all, printing more plastics is not 
the end, nor the means.


Biodesign Report 2024
New, Cleaner Materials for 3D Printing
“Kind Colour & Growth Simulation with 3D Printing”, Tocco.earth*
“Kind Colour & Growth Simulation with 3D Printing”, 
Tocco.earth*
We have covered the work of designer 
Nik Lee before. He leverages 
advanced 3D printing technology to 
create aesthetically eye-pleasing 
objects, using biodegradable organic 
waste* for 3D printing, emphasising 
both creativity and eco-friendliness.
12/22
 3D printing with home compostable and locally 
sourced materials by Nik Lee 
(Photo by @facunruiz)
 3D printed vase by Nik Lee 
(Photo courtesy of Nick Lee)
 3D printed vase by Nik Lee 
(Photo courtesy of Nick Lee)
1/14
3/21
Photo by Yosafat Herdian
Biodesign Report 2024
New, Cleaner Materials for 3D Printing
“Art meets tech: Philipp Aduatz's 3D sculptures”, Tocco.earth**
Leatherock© by Hors Studio (Photo by Hors Studio)
13/22
Following the week in Milan, we are impressed by the work of 
Hors Studio's interior pieces. These are printed in 
Leatherock©, a new material made from leather scraps and 
a natural binder for large-scale 3D printing. This material 
promises to replace traditional concrete, yet indeed, more 
tests and trials will need to be done to guarantee a 
successful scale-up.
Less on the material itself, and more on the craftmanship 
side, we met Philipp Aduatz’s work again during Milan Design 
Week. His pieces combine traditional craftsmanship with 3D 
printing and CNC milling,** producing visually captivating 
furniture pieces with great precision.
Gradient Fauteuil by Philipp Aduatz 
14/22
When it comes to chemical composition of materials, 
first things we think of might be waste-based recipes 
and bio-based polymers, which recently have taken 
more stage in our minds. The design world is, indeed, 
seeing a trend towards these more “eco-friendly” 
materials, arguably initially sparked by pioneers like 
Stella McCartney (her work in 2017: recycled nylon 
Econyl and Mylo, a leather alternative made from 
mycelium).

Since then, more brands are observed to jump on this 
bandwagon, pushing boundaries and greenwashing 
alike. While these developments are promising, it's 
essential to critically assess whether they truly deliver on 
their sustainability promises or just offer a glossy green 
veneer.

Biodesign Report 2024
Developments in materials’ chemical 
composition
1/14
3/21
Photo by Yosafat Herdian
Biodesign Report 2024
Developments in materials’ chemical 
composition
1/14
One of the great examples of things-done-right that we 
saw in Milan is the Bolete collection.* This collection 
features an upholstered chair and multipurpose tables 
made from Bio-thermopolymer material. This material is 
said to be 100% natural origin, non-fossil, compostable, 
and biodegradable. 

This might be the start of a not-so-new trend: designers 
are stepping beyond their traditional roles, beyond soly 
developing products, they now look to improve and 
rearrange materials at a deeper level. The goal is indeed 
two fold: to enhance performance while eliminating 
hazardous substances.
1/22
1/22
1/14
3/21
Photo by Yosafat Herdian
Biodesign Report 2024
CNC and Laser Cutting for Wood 
Usage Optimisation
CNC and laser cutting technologies promise to 
enable precise cuts and minimal waste in woodwork. 
As mentioned in the previous part of the report, 
wood is stepping back into the spotlight in the 
"Materia Natura" world.

One collection that caught our eyes was “Fragment” 
by Studio Sospeso, which upcycles olive wood and 
ceramics to create unique handles for furniture. This 
work breathes new life into pieces whose existence 
we often forget about (and all the while, an essential 
part of our daily use of furniture). The handles are 
elegant and smooth at the touch, contrasting with its 
industrial look at first glance.
Different designs of "Fragment" furniture handles (Photo by Studio Sospeso)
16/22
1/14
3/21
Biodesign Report 2024
Pottery Casting Optimisation
Traditional pottery casting is often considered 
a wasteful practice, especially in the 
preparation and disposal of molds. 
Optimisation, in this case, and in an ideal 
situation, involves using precise, computer-
aided techniques to reduce material waste, 
recycle excess, and minimise energy usage.
Some examples can be 3D printing and 
advanced mold technologies, which allow for 
small-scale, high-quality production. 

In Milan, we saw and loved the work of Luis 
Gimeno with his luminaires, using 3D printing 
tech and sand, creating very lovely, 
aesthetically pleasing pieces of lighting that 
delight.
Lamp "Sun" in the "Dune" collection by Luis Gimeno (Photo by Luis Gimeno)
Lamp "Sun" in the "Dune" collection by Luis Gimeno (Photo by Luis Gimeno)
17/22
1/14
3/21
Biodesign Report 2024
Composites and Clusters
Lamp "Sun" in the "Dune" collection by Luis Gimeno (Photo by Luis Gimeno)
Here’s an unpopular opinion: composites made 
from recycled and bio-based materials should be 
discussed more often. They should even be the 
next big hype, which we will cover more in the 
future.

One great exhibit we saw in Milan was the work of 
Arper. Composed of 29 layers of paper bonded 
with natural resin, Catifa Carta showcases 
exciting, aesthetically pleasing, high-
performance applications of scraped paper. The 
end-of-life also excites: the pyrolysis process will 
turn the material into biochar.
Catifa Carta by Arper (Photo by Arper)
Catifa Carta by Arper (Photo by Arper)
18/22
1/14
3/21
Biodesign Report 2024
 Materials with memory
Lamp "Sun" in the "Dune" collection by Luis Gimeno (Photo by Luis Gimeno)
One of the highest acclaimed exhibitions on 
biofabrication would be ECAL’s (Ecole Cantonale 
d'Art de Lausanne) exhibition "Under Pressure 
Solutions”. This project offers an interesting 
approach to addressing transportation issues in 
furniture design. 

The exhibition highlights works on cellulose 
sponge, a bio-sourced and biodegradable 
material. The team was made of ECAL’s students 
and tutors, imagining a lightweight furniture system 
that can be compressed for efficient shipping and 
later expanded upon arrival with just a bit of 
moisture.
19/22
ECAL’s exhibition "Under Pressure Solutions” at Milan Design Week 2024 (Photo by ECAL)
These colours we chose for the Fall/Winter 
24/25 reflect a broader trend towards 
biomaterials and Biodesign. As we look 
forward to Paris Design Week in September 
2024, we anticipate even more innovative uses 
of these colours across different design 
disciplines, while giving a nod to nature, the 
outside world, and the wonders they bring to 
our lives. 
17-5440 TCX 
Ocean Floor
VIRIDIAN
CHARTREUSE 
14-0445 TCX 
Bright Chartreuse
MAHOGANY
19-1724 TCX 
Cabernet
BUTTER 
YELLOW
13-0515 TCX 
Lemon Icing
PEACH FUZZ 
3-1023 TCX 
Peach Fuzz 
Biodesign Report 2024
COLOR TRENDS FALL/WINTER  2024-2025 REPORT
Download Color Trend 24/25 
20/22
21/22
Biodesign Report 2024
STAY AHEAD 
OF THE 
CURVE
FOLLOW TOCCO ON  
INSTAGRAM @tocco.earth
Biodesign Report 2024
22/22
Proudly edited by the Tocco Media team

For media inquiries or further information, please contact us at: 
media@tocco.earth
